in just about one more click you will
recognize what this organ is if you
haven't already if your eyes are good
enough to be picking up all these little
ball as as glomeruli then you already
know that we're in the kidney and so you
could see glomeruli and you could see
tubules and you can see tubules in the
collecting system but the first thing
that might hit your eye is that within
the area which is predominantly tubular
perhaps inside of a medullary inside the
medulla inside of deep within a pyramid
you see little irregular areas as well
and when you look closely at these areas
like here here here here here here here
relative to the normal surrounding
tubules the first thing that you notice
is that they may be tubules but you
can't really make out their cytoplasm
and nuclei very well like you can in
this tubules surrounding them
these are necrotic tubules this isn't
that blood it doesn't look like blood
but it's about as red as blood
these are necrotic individual tubules
and now that you know that they're all
over the place and they represent all of
these areas within the medulla you might
go out to the cortex and what you see a
good number of glomeruli as well and
look at some of those tubules and you
can see a glomerulus here you could see
some tubules here even at this power
what you're wondering if you could
discern nuclei or nuts no you really
can't you could see completely the
nuclei within here and within here but
look at these tubules probably proximal
tubules you can't see nuclei at all and
furthermore the cytoplasm is a lot
redder than it should be these are
necrotic tubules as well in here is a
part of
to bill where you could at least see
some residual cells but almost all of
this to bill in almost all this one is
also necrotic this is tubular necrosis
tubular necrosis has a very very long
list of a differential diagnosis many of
which are vascular and many of which are
toxic and in this case certain toxic
compounds like ethylene glycol
antifreeze
besides wreaking severe havoc on the
multiple areas of the body one thing
that it does is it kills your tubules
and could this possibly be some
crystallization of the compound I would
rather not guess because I don't know
but besides necrotic tubules in here you
see something else that doesn't look
like it should be there this is acute
tubular necrosis we can see it's in the
cortex in an area where there are nearby
glomerular but we can also see it out in
an area within the medulla as well and
in this case is caused by one of the
many poisons that can do direct damage
to the tubules in this case it's
ethylene glycol causing acute tubular
necrosis I thank you very much